# ;; -*- mode: org; coding: utf-8 -*-

#+TITLE: GNU Foliot NEWS

#+BEGIN_COMMENT

Copyright (C) 2015 - 2018
Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This file is part of GNU Foliot.

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.

#+END_COMMENT


                Foliot - History of user-visible changes
                ========================================

          Please send Foliot bug reports to one of the following
                               addresses:

                           bug-foliot@gnu.org


* Latest News

** June 2018

GNU Foliot version 0.9.8 is released.  This is a maintenance release,
which brings GNU Foliot up-to-date with Grip 0.2.0, upon which it
depends.  In addition, the default installation locations changed, and
there is a new configure option - see below for a complete description
of these changes.

*** Changes since 0.9.7

Here is a summary of the changes since version 0.9.7. See GNU Foliot's
[[http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git][git summary]] and [[http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git/log/][git log]] for a complete description.

**** Dependencies

Grip 	      >= 0.2.0
Grip-Gnome
Grip-SQLite

Iwona

 This is the font used to make the GNU Foliot reports. It is now a hard
 depdency.  It was a soft dependency, but that was a mistake, since as
 it is, the making of the reports would fail unless the Iwona font is
 available.

Guile-Lib   >= 0.2.5

  This is a soft dependency: Guile-Lib is required to run the
  test-suite, which is recommended but not mandatory.

**** Installation location changes

The default and --prefix installation locations for source modules and
compiled files has been changed, and, in the absence of the new
configure option described below, are now:

  $(datadir)/foliot
  $(libdir)/foliot/guile/$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION)/site-ccache

In the above, $(datadir) is substituted to the default /usr/local/share
or /your/prefix/share and $(libdir) is substituted to /usr/local/lib or
/your/prefix/lib, when/if --prefix was passed.

$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION) is substituted to the stable version number
with which Foliot is being compile, for example, 2.2

This change makes GNU Foliot compatible with the GNU Coding Standards,
but it also implies that, unless you use the new configure option
describe below, you will have to augment both Guile's variables
%load-path and %load-compiled-path, respectively, with the two
(substituted) paths described above, so that Guile finds Foliot's
installed source modules and compiled files (see Foliot's installation
'Notes' for more on this).

**** New configure option

The configure option --with-guile-site has been added, used to
explicitly ask Foliot's source modules to be installed in the
Guile-Gnome site directory, and the compiled files using Guile's
site-ccache directories respectively (see Foliot's installation 'Notes'
for more on this).

It will only be honored if (and only if) it is passed as:

  --with-guile-site=yes

  [ in this case, there is obviously no need to augment Guile's
  [ variables %load-path and %load-compiled-path


* Older News

** March 2018

GNU Foliot version 0.9.7 is released.  This is a maintenance release,
which brings GNU Foliot up-to-date with Guile-2.2, which introduced an
incompatible module - goops related - change.

** Changes since 0.9.6-beta

Here is a summary of the changes since version 0.9.6-alpha. See GNU
Foliot's git summary [1] and git log [2] for a complete description:

	[1] http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git
	[2] http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git/log/

Dependencies
------------

	- Guile       >= 2.0.14
	- Guile-Gnome >= 2.16.5
	- Grip 	      >= 0.1.2
      Grip-Gnome
	  Grip-SQLite

Core
----

	- Guile-2.2 does not query (default-duplicate-binding-handler)
      at module expand eval load time as it did for Guile-2.0, a bad
      decision imo, but we have to cope with it, and declare
      #:duplicates (merge-generics ...) in each individual module
      instead.  We also removed our patched version of guild, since it
      became useless, and now use the version that comes with Guile.

	- All getters, setters, accessors and methods are now exported
      using g-export - defined in (grip g-export) - which re-export
      defined names (and precisely should only be used for getters,
      setters, accessors and methods).


** April the 14th, 2016

GNU Foliot version 0.9.6-beta is released, the next maintenance release
for the 0.9 series.

** Changes since 0.9.6-alpha

This release fixes a serious GUI bug that appeared in GNU Foliot version
0.9.6-alpha : none of the 'Who', 'For whom' and 'What' combobox gtk
entries where editable.

Here is a summary of the changes since version 0.9.6-alpha. See GNU
Foliot's git summary [1] and git log [2] for a complete description:

Dependencies
------------

	- GNU Foliot now depends on Grip, Grip-Gnome and Grip-SQLite
      >= 0.1.1

Core
----

	- fixing a bug in foliot, the script

GUI
---

	- none of the 'Who', 'For whom' and 'What' combobox gtk entries
      where editable, fixed. See commit 90c38a7 in [2] for further
      detail and how this bug appeared in GNU Foliot version
      0.9.6-alpha.

[1] http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git
[2] http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/foliot.git/log/

