@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the GNU Foliot User Manual.
@c Copyright (C)  2011 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

@menu
* About GNU Foliot::
* The name::
* What else::
* Savannah::
* Obtaining and Installing GNU Foliot::
* Contact::
@end menu


@c @unnumberedsec About GNU Foliot
@node About GNU Foliot
@section About GNU Foliot

GNU Foliot is a small and easy to use time keeping application.

It can be used in a single user mode or by small organizations. Starting
with version 0.9.4, it can import other user's database, an essential
feature for remote collaborators.

The fields it handles are: a @strong{reference}, a @strong{date},
@strong{who}, @strong{for whom}, @strong{what}, a @strong{duration},
whether or not the time keeping entry needs @strong{to be charged} and a
@strong{description}.  The reference is handled automatically by GNU
Foliot and therefore is a @emph{read only} field.

It includes, on the main application screen, a powerful dynamic filters
criteria mechanism, which lets you visualize, work on and print a subset
of your time keeping entries.

A printing templates system allows you to (pre)define, reuse and hence
quickly generate the pdf files and/or printed reports of your needs.

A version which will let users export an active filter based subset of
their time keeping entries is under work.

@node The name
@section The name

Foliot was the name given, back in the 13th century, to one of the
essential components of the first all-mecanical clocks:

@quotation
... Starting in the 13th century, large tower clocks were built in
European town squares, cathedrals, and monasteries. They kept time by
using the verge escapement to drive a foliot, an horizontal bar with
weights on the ends, a primitive type of balance wheel, to oscillate
back and forth. The rate of the clock could be adjusted by sliding the
weights in or out on the foliot bar ...
@author @uref{@value{UFOLIOT-WIKIPEDIA}, Wikipedia}
@end quotation

@node What else
@section What else

GNU Foliot is written in @uref{@value{UGUILE}, Guile}, an
interpreter and compiler for the @uref{@value{USCHEME}, Scheme}
programming language.  It uses @uref{@value{UGUILE-GNOME}, Guile-Gnome}
for its graphical interface, @uref{@value{USQLITE}, SQLite} for its
database backend and @uref{@value{ULATEX}, LaTex} for the reports.


@node Savannah
@section Savannah

GNU Foliot also has a @uref{@value{UFOLIOT-SAVANNAH}, Savannah} project
page.

@node Obtaining and Installing GNU Foliot
@section Obtaining and Installing GNU Foliot

GNU Foliot can be obtained from the following archive site
@uref{@value{UFOLIOT-RELEASES}}.  The file will be named
foliot-version.tar.gz. The current version is @value{VERSION}, so the file
you should grab is:

@tie{}@tie{}@tie{}@tie{}@uref{@value{UFOLIOT-LATEST}}

@menu
* Dependencies::
* Quickstart::
@end menu

@node Dependencies
@subsection Dependencies

GNU Foliot needs the following software to run:

@itemize @bullet

@item
Autoconf >= 2.69

@item
Automake >= 1.14

@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE}, Guile}>= 2.0.14

@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE-GNOME}, Guile-Gnome} >= 2.16.5, the following
wrappers:

  @indentedblock
  Glib, Gobject, Pango, Pangocairo, libgnome, libgnomeui, libglade, Gtk
  @end indentedblock

@item 
@uref{@value{USQLITE}, SQLite} >= 3.7

@item
libpcre

@comment @item
@comment @uref{@value{USQLITE3-PCRE}, sqlite3-pcre}: perl compatible
@comment regular expression support for SQLite

@item
@uref{@value{UGRIP}, Grip} >= 0.1.2

  @indentedblock
  Grip (core), Grip-gnome, Grip-SQLite
  @end indentedblock

@item
@uref{@value{ULATEX}, LaTex}

  @indentedblock
  Any modern latex distribution will do, we use
  @uref{@value{UTEXLIVE}, TexLive}.

  Foliot will check that it can find the extarticle document class, as
  well as the following packages: inputenc, fontenc, lmodern, pifont,
  amsfonts, amssymb, amsmath, wasysym, graphicx, parskip, xspace,
  tabularx, longtable, ltxtable, multicol, booktabs, hhline, numprint,
  fancyhdr, lastpage, xcolor, colortbl, fancybox, textcomp, calc,
  geometry and Iwona.

  @uref{@value{UIWONA}, Iwona} is the font used to create the
  reports. Note that it could be that it is not part of your ’basic’
  LaTex distro, on debian for example, iwona is part of the
  texlive-fonts-extra package.
  @end indentedblock

@item
@uref{@value{UGUILE-LIB}, Guile-Lib} >= 0.2.5

  @indentedblock
  This is a soft dependency: Guile-Lib is required to run the
  test-suite, which is recommended but not mandatory.
  @end indentedblock

@end itemize


@node Quickstart
@subsection Quickstart

Assuming you have satisfied the dependencies, open a terminal and
proceed with the following steps:

@example
cd <download-path>
tar zxf foliot-@value{VERSION}.tar.gz
cd foliot-@value{VERSION}
./configure [--prefix=/your/prefix]
make
make install
@end example

To start GNU Foliot, open a terminal and enter:

@example
foliot
@end example

Happy GNU Foliot!

@*
@strong{Notes:}

@enumerate
@item
The default and --prefix installation locations for source modules and
compiled files (in the absence of --with-guile-site=yes, otherwise see
below) are:

@example
$(datadir)/foliot
$(libdir)/foliot/guile/$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION)/site-ccache
@end example

In the above, $(datadir) is substituted to the default
@file{/usr/local/share} or @file{/your/prefix/share} and
@code{$(libdir)} is substituted to @file{/usr/local/lib} or
@file{/your/prefix/lib}, when/if @code{--prefix} was passed.

@code{$(GUILE_EFFECTIVE_VERSION)} is substituted to the stable version
number with which Foliot is being compile, for example, @code{2.2}

Unless you passed @code{--with-guile-site=yes}, you must augment Guile's
@code{%load-path} and @code{%load-compiled-path}, respectively, with the
two (substituted) paths described above, so that Guile finds Foliot's
installed source modules and compiled files.

To do this, you either (a) create/update your personnal @file{~/.guile}
file, (b) update Guile's global site init.scm file or (c) define/update
both @code{GUILE_LOAD_PATH} and @code{GUILE_LOAD_COMPILED_PATH} (Make
sure you read Guile's manual 'Environment Variables' and 'Load Paths'
subsections if you are not familiar).

Here is an example for (c), assuming these variables were not already
defined and no @code{--prefix} has been given, using the Bash shell:

@example
export GUILE_LOAD_PATH="/usr/local/share/foliot"
export GUILE_LOAD_COMPILED_PATH="/usr/local/lib/foliot/guile/2.2/site-ccache"
@end example

@item
If you pass @code{--with-guile-site=yes}, Foliot's source modules will
be installed in the Guile-Gnome site directory and compiled files will
be installed using Guile's site-ccache directory.  You may check these
two locations using:

@example
guile -c "(use-modules (gnome-2)) (display (path %load-path \"gnome/gtk.scm\")))) (newline)"
guile -c "(display (%site-ccache-dir)) (newline)"
@end example

@item
To install Foliot, you must have write permissions to the default or
$prefix dir and its subdirs, as well as to both Guile-Gnome site
directory and Guile's site-ccache directory if --with-guile-site=yes was
passed.
@ifhtml
@*@*
@end ifhtml

@item
Unless already done, add @file{$prefix/bin} to the @code{PATH} variable
of your default shell configuration file.  As an example, using bash,
you would add the following line at the end of your .bashrc file
[assuming --prefix=/opt]:

@example
export PATH=/opt/bin:$PATH
@end example

@item
Like for any other GNU Tool Chain compatible software, you may install
the documentation locally using @code{make install-html} [or @code{make
install-pdf} ...]. Note that as it is, GNU Foliot's documentation still
is a mock-up.
@end enumerate


@node Contact
@section Contact

@menu
* Mailing list::
* Reporting Bugs::
* IRC::
@end menu

@node Mailing list
@subsection Mailing list

GNU Foliot uses the following mailing list:

@itemize @bullet
@item foliot-user at gnu dot org
@end itemize

You can (un)subscribe to the list by following instructions on the
@uref{@value{UFOLIOT-LISTINFO}, list information page}.


@node Reporting Bugs
@subsection Reporting Bugs

GNU Foliot has a @uref{@value{UFOLIOT-BUGS-TRACKER}, bugs tracker}. You
may send your bugs report here:

@itemize @bullet
@item bug-foliot at gnu dot org
@end itemize

You can (un)subscribe to the bugs report list by following instructions
on the @uref{@value{UFOLIOT-BUGS-LISTINFO}, list information page}.


@node IRC
@subsection IRC

Most of the time you can find me on irc, channel @emph{#guile},
@emph{#guix} and @emph{#scheme} on @emph{irc.freenode.net},
@emph{#clutter} on @emph{irc.gnome.org}, under the nickname
@strong{daviid}.
