@c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This is part of the Kisê User Manual.
@c Copyright (C)  2011 - 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.


@copying
This manual documents Kisê version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2011 - 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

This manual describes how to use Kisê.  It relates particularly to 
Kisê version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Contributors to this manual::
* Kisê License::
@end menu

@node Contributors to this manual
@unnumberedsec Contributors to this Manual

Like Kisê itself, the Kisê user manual is a living entity. Right now, the
contributors to this manual are:

@itemize @bullet
@item Christian Lalune
@item David Pirotte
@end itemize

who are also the authors and maintainers of Kisê.

You are most welcome to join and help.  Visit Kisê's web site at
@uref{http://www.altosw.be/kise/} to find out how to get involved.


@node Kisê License
@unnumberedsec The Kisê License
@cindex copying
@cindex GPL
@cindex license

Kisê is Free Software.  Kisê is copyrighted, not public domain, and there are
restrictions on its distribution or redistribution:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Kisê and supporting files are published under the terms of the GNU
General Public License version 3 or later.  See the file @file{LICENSE}.

@item
This manual is published under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License
(@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}).
@end itemize

You must be aware there is no warranty whatsoever for Kisê.  This is described
in full in the license.


@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "kise.texi"
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
@c End:
